---
layout: post
title: Overtime - A Public Hearing @ Tel Aviv Museum of Art. Tel Aviv, Israel.
category: talk
---

21 June 2013 @ 16:00  
Tel Aviv Museum of Art

Focusing on the theme of Host & Guest, this event on June 11, 2013 is conceived as a public hearing that negotiates its own status and presence in the museum of art as a guest turning host. Assuming the role of an interrogation committee, the event takes place at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art as a four-hour-long public hearing in three acts, focusing on the Marxist concept of general intellect as social production, which is considered here specifically in relation to the unseen labor done in the museum (by artists, staff, visitors, and the general public).

The hearing takes place in the foyer of the museum’s main building. Following the notion of dark matter, developed by Gregory Sholette in his book, Dark Matter: Art and Politics in the Age of Enterprise Culture, we can say that it is actually the museum that is hosted by artists – as it is dependent not only on the artifacts it collects and exhibits, but also on all those that allow for these materials to appear. Meaning, the logic of the art museum is as dependent on the art it shows as it relies on the art it does not show – the museum of art’s dark matter.

The notions at the heart of Overtime – A Public Hearing stem from the understanding that the art museum illustrates through these host and guest relations, the conditions of labor today. Following the realization that labor has left the employment market to become all-present in our social and mental exchanges, the “overtime” of labor that we each put in is what generates value (even without any system of pricing and compensation, such as remuneration based on working hours as in the employment market).

The hearing will bring together the members of the committee and those of the public to debate a series of questions that are key to understanding the role of the museum in relation to the communities it is hosted by and those it hosts. In Overtime – A Public Hearing a group of nine sits at a long table, performing as a hearing committee, with the audience summoned to testify and debate. Both the committee and the summoned public are constituted primarily by social and cultural activists, artists, critics, teachers, and journalists.

The hearing is divided into three sessions:

I. THE NEW INTERNATIONAL will focus on new institutions and new demands.

II. THE OVERQUALIFIED will focus on the generational gap of a workforce that has little place in the employment market, while it never ceases to be working.

III. POST-POLITICAL POLITICS will address the question of the world to come after capitalism.

Each session begins with three short statement by members of the committee and is then opened as a discussion with comments and questions between the committee members and the summoned public